# 1
> If MIX were a ternary (base 3) computer, how many "trits" would there be per byte?

4, which gives 81 possible values per byte.


# 2
> If a value to be represented within MIX may get as large as 99999999, how many adjacent bytes should be used to contain this quantity?

$\ceil(\log_2(99999999) / 6) = 5$


# 3
> Give the partial field specifications, (L:R), for the (a) address field, (b) index field, (c) field field, and (d) operation code field of a MIX instruction.

(a) (0:2)
(b) (3:3)
(c) (4:4)
(d) (5:5)


# 4
> The last example in (5) is `LDA -2000,4`. How can this be legitimate, in view of the fact that memory addresses should not be negative?

`LDA` loads from address $M = AA + rIi$ if $I$ is nonzero. In the example $I = 4$. If $rI4 \geq 2000$, then the instruction in the example is valid.


# 5
> What symbolic notation, analogous to (4), corresponds to (6) if (6) is regarded as a MIX instruction?

`DIV -80,3(0:5)`


# 6
> Assume that location 3000 contains `+ 5 1 3 8 15`. What is the result of the following instructons?

(a) `LDAN 3000`: $rA$ is set to `- 5 1 3 8 15`.
(b) `LD2N 3000(3:4)`: $rI2$ is set to `- 3 8`.
(c) `LDX 3000(1:3)`: $rX$ is set to `+ 0 0 5 1 3`.
(d) `LD6 3000`: Fault! (or, undefined)
(e) `LDXN 3000(0:0)`: $rX$ is set to `- 0 0 0 0 0`.


# 7
> Give a precise definition of the results of the `DIV` instruction for all cases in which overflow does not occur, using the algebraic operations $X \mod Y$ and $\floor{X/Y}$.

TODO


# 8
> The last example of the `DIV` instruction that appears on page 133 has "$rX$ before" equal to `+ 19 19 0 3 1`. If this were `- 19 18 0 3 1` instead, but other parts of that example were unchanged, what would registers $A$ and $X$ contain after the `DIV` instruction?

$rA = $`- 0 617_ 0 0 1`
$rX = $`- 0 0 0 1 1`


# 9
> List all the `MIX` operators that can possibly affect the setting of the overflow toggle. (Do not include floating point operators.)

`ADD, SUB, MUL, DIV, NUM, INCA, INCX, DECA, DECX, JOV, JNOV`.


# 10
> List all the `MIX` operators that can possibly affect the setting of the comparison indicator.

`CMPA, CMPi, CMPX, JL, JE, JG, JGE, JNE, JLE`.


# 11
> List all the `MIX` operators that can possibly affect the setting of $r1$.

`LD1, LD1N, MOVE, INC1, ENT1, DEC1, ENN1`.


# 12
> Find a single instruction that has the effect of multiplying the current contents of rI3 by two and leaving the result in rI3.

`INC3 0,3`.


# 13
> Suppose location 1000 contains the instruction `JOV 1001`. This instruction turns off the overflow toggle if it is on (and the next instruction executed will be in location 1001, in any case). If this instruction were changed to `JNOV 1001`, would there be any difference? 

No.

> What if it were changed to `JOV 1000` or `JNOV 1000`?

`JOV 1000` would have no difference apart from wasting an extra cycle if the overflow toggle were initially on.

`JNOV 1000` would enter an infinite loop if the overflow toggle were off.


# 14
> For each MIX operation, consider whether there is a way to set the +/-AA, I, and F portions so that theresult of the instruction is preciesly equivalent to `NOP` (except that the execution time may be longer). Assume that nothing is known about the contents of any registers or any memory locations. Whenever it is possible to produce a `NOP`, state how it can be done. Examples: `INCA` is a no-op if the address and index parts are zero. `JMP` can never be a no-op, since it affects $rJ$.

TODO


# 15
> How many alphameric characters are there in a typewriter or paper-tape block? in a card-reader or card-punch block? in a line-printer block?

typewriter or paper-tape:  14*5 = 70
card-reader or card-punch: 16*5 = 80
line-printer:              24*5 = 120


# 16
> Write a program that sets memory cells 0000-0099 all to zero and is (a) as short a program as possible; (b) as fast a program as possible.

## (a)
```
STZ 0000
ENT1 0001
MOVE 0000(50)
MOVE 0050(49)
```

## (b)
`for i in range(100): "STZ ${i}"`


# 17
> This is the same as the previous exercise, except that locations 0000 through $N$, inclusive, are to be set to zero, where $N$ is the current contents of $rI2$. Your programs (a) and (b) should work for any value $0 \leq N \leq 2999$; they should start in location 3000.

## (a)
```
STZ 0000,2
DEC2 1
J2NN 3000
```

runtime = (N+1)*4u

## (b)
```
STZ 0000
ENT1 1

JMP .dec
.loop: MOVE 0000(63)
.dec: DEC2 63
J2P .loop

SET2 .lastMove(4:4)
.lastMove: MOVE 0000(?)
```

$runtime = 4 + \floor{N/63} * (4 + 2*63) + 2 + 1+2*\rem{N, 63}$
$        = 7 + \floor{N/63}*4 + 2*N$
